Create VL blog (squashed) (#7)
mkondratek/git-machete-blog-post: blog.md

## Take a look at your repository from a new perspective with Git Machete Plugin!

> 

Reviewer: I'd consider smuggling the logo (preferably the extended version with `Git Machete` words) here at the beginning

> Git and IntelliJ-based software are currently one of the most important tools in software development.

Reviewer: Hmmm just thinking now... is this paragraph even needed in the VL blog? :thinking: could we start from `Creating and maintaining...`?

The version control system provided with the JetBrains's IDE products
allows performing pretty much all everyday VCS actions directly via the IDE.
Despite the many benefits of the provided IDE and VCS integration,
the state of more extensive (in terms of branch count) repositories presented in Git Log
often gets non-intuitive and difficult to interpret.

Creating and maintaining small, focused, easy-to-review PRs is a comfortable and desired approach
for both the authors and, especially, the reviewers.
We created a plugin that eases the management of 2+ branches in the repository

> while also promoting creation of small PRs &mdash;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
while also promoting `the` creation of small PRs &mdash;
```

> **a git repository organizer, and a rebase/merge/push/pull automation tool, named Git Machete.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**a git repository organizer and a rebase/merge/push/pull automation tool, named Git Machete.**
```

> It allows for looking at the state of the repository from a previously inexperienceable perspective.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It allows for looking at the state of the repository from a previously unknown? perspective.
```

It puts the primary focus on branches (rather than commits),

> their relationship to each other and also to the remote repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
their relationship with each other and with the remote repository.
```

### Git Machete Status Graph

![Git Machete Tab with demo repository](gmt_dark.png "Git Machete Tab")

The picture above presents the demo repository `filter-service` with a few branches.
It contains two **root branches** &mdash; `develop` and `master`.
The first of them has two **child branches** &mdash; `allow-ownership-link`
(with a child branch of its own &mdash; `build-chain`), and `call-ws`.

Each line contains a name of a branch, an optional custom annotation, and relation to the remote branch.

Without going into details, the **green edge** indicates the desired state &mdash;
the tip of the child branch is a direct descendant of the parent branch tip
(i.e. all commits reachable from the parent are also reachable from the child).<br/>
On the other hand, the **red edge** tells us the opposite &mdash;
the tip of the child branch is **not** a direct descendant of the parent branch tip.

In most cases, an edge becomes red after committing some changes to the parent branch (review fixes)
or pulling new commits to the parent from a remote.

### Machete File

![Machete file](machete-file_dark.png "Machete file")

> The branches presented within the graph are defined in a very simple configuration file (`.git/machete`),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The branches presented within the graph are defined in a simple configuration file (`.git/machete`),
```

which can be easily opened from the plugin's toolbar.
It supports both syntax highlighting and completion of local branch names.
The graph is automatically refreshed when `.git/machete` is modified.

Bear in mind that there is no need to edit the machete file manually to set up your branch layout tree.
Feel free to use `Discover Branch Layout` functionality that will find it out for you automatically.
It can be performed from `Help -> Find Action...` (default shortcut: `Ctrl + Shift + A`).

> Furthermore, the discover happens in the case of a missing or empty machete file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the discovery happens in the case of a missing or empty machete file
```

(although the discovered layout might require some manual changes).

### Lights, Camera... Actions

The plugin provides a bunch of actions that can help you to manage your repository.

Among the others, there is `Rebase onto Parent`
(that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent), `Push` and `Pull`.
Let's have a look at the following example...

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-before_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - Before")

Branch `allow-ownership-link` is **out of sync** (red edge) to its parent &mdash; `develop`.
Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch (`origin/develop`).

> With Git Machete we can quickly and conveniently lead it to a desired state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Git Machete we can quickly and conveniently lead it to the desired state.
```

First, `Checkout and Rebase Branch Onto Parent`.

> This will perform an interactive rebase from IntelliJ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That will perform an interactive rebase from IntelliJ.
```

Once the rebase is finished, the branch is **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

#### VCS Log Rebase
![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-idea_dark-4x3.gif "Rebase From VCS Log")

#### Git Machete Rebase
![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-gm_dark-4x3.gif "Rebase From Git Machete")

Now all that's left is to `Push...`.
This action opens a (force) push dialog. <br/>
After a successful push, the remote branch is **up to date** with its remote branch.

The final repository status is shown below.

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-after_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - After")

### Try it now

> The plugin is available from the [Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete "Jet Brains Marketplace - Git Machete Plugin"). <br/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin is available from the [Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete "JetBrains Marketplace - Git Machete Plugin"). <br/>
```
